#summary Meeting Reports
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements

= Report of Meeting Thursday, Nov 3, 2011 =

== Issues & Decisions ==
<dl>
 <dt>1. Improvements in the project, after the previous meeting, are explained.</dt>

 <dt>2. Calculation of the throughput of the simulation is discussed:</dt><dd>2.1. [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shannon_capacity Shannon's Capacity Formula] is going to be used for throughput calculation.(Assuming that we have 40 channels with 8MHz Bandwidth)</dd>

 <dt>3. Assignments for the next meeting is decided:</dt>
 <dd>3.1. Adjusting simulation parameters to observe secondary-primary users relations within an environment which is much closer to the real-world. These changes are:</dd>
 <dd><dl>
 <dd> 3.1.1. Increase the number of frequencies and the number of primary-secondary users.</dd>
 <dd> 3.1.2. Observe the drop and block probabilities of the secondary users from the beginning of the simulation and determine the point where these probabilities are stabilized; and ignore all of the data gathered before this point(warm-up period of the system)</dd>
 </dl></dd>
 <dd>3.2. Implement sensing for the secondary users.</dd>
 <dd>3.3. Show collisions in the animation(with a time delay)</dd>
 <dd>3.4. While animation is running, also show the related plots and update them simultaneously. </dd>
 <dd>3.5. Write the progress report regarding what is done so far, and what is next. </dd>
</dl>
== Attendees ==
   * Mehmet Akif Ersoy _(Developer)_
   * Bilal Acar _(Developer)_
   * Tuna Tugcu _(Supervisor)_
   * Birkan Yilmaz _(Assistant Supervisor)_
----
= Report of Meeting Tuesday, Oct 11, 2011 =

== Issues & Decisions ==
<dl>
 <dt>1. Summary of project so far is done.</dt>

 <dt>2. Summary of papers read is done.</dt>

 <dt>3. Assignments for the next meeting is decided:</dt>
 <dd>3.1. Taking statistics from the point of view of Simulator. These statistics are:</dd>
 <dd><dl>
 <dd> 3.1.1. Throughput of both primary users and secondary users.</dd>
 <dd> 3.1.2. Secondary Drop when primary arrives and no available channel found.</dd>
 <dd> 3.1.3. Secondary Force Hand-off when primary arrives and another available channel found.</dd>
 <dd> 3.1.4. Secondary Block when there is no available channel to communicate.</dd>
 <dd> 3.1.5. Collisions of primary and secondary users.</dd>
 </dl></dd>
 <dd>3.2. Unit times will be specified.</dd>
 <dd>3.3. Documentation, class diagram, and flow chart will be completed.</dd>
</dl>
== Attendees ==
   * Mehmet Akif Ersoy _(Developer)_
   * Bilal Acar _(Developer)_
   * Tuna Tugcu _(Supervisor)_
   * Birkan Yilmaz _(Assistant Supervisor)_